# B-Tree Based Employee Management System
Employee management systems are useful for running a smooth organization, especially organizations of scale. It assists HR personnel to keep track of employee information such as salary details, medical information, attendance/leave records, overall performance and more.This employee management system is build using B-Tree base algorithm for optimizing search.

B-Tree is a self-balancing search tree. In most of the other self-balancing search trees (like AVL and Red-Black Trees), it is assumed that everything is in main memory. To understand the use of B-Trees, we must think of the huge amount of data that cannot fit in main memory. When the number of keys is high, the data is read from disk in the form of blocks. Disk access time is very high compared to the main memory access time. The main idea of using B-Trees is to reduce the number of disk accesses. Most of the tree operations (search, insert, delete, max, min ) require O(h) disk accesses where h is the height of the tree. B-tree is a fat tree. The height of B-Trees is kept low by putting maximum possible keys in a B-Tree node. Generally, the B-Tree node size is kept equal to the disk block size. Since the height of the B-tree is low so total disk accesses for most of the operations are reduced significantly compared to balanced Binary Search Trees like AVL Tree, Red-Black Tree.

Working:
Let’s understand the working of B-Tree through insertion and deletion operations. There are two cases associated with the insertion of a key in B-Tree. These are, first that node is not full, and secondly, the node is already full. Insertion of a key happens in the node if it’s a leaf node that is not full. In case the node is full, then the node is split at the median into two nodes, the level remaining the same, and the median element is upped by a level.

Conclusion
B-Tree is one of those data structures that efficiently assist in data operations including insertion, deletion, and traversal. The usefulness of data structure as this is evident not in small applications but is impactful in real-world situations that involve very large datasets.
